Create a short document you can use to guide you when you create your next analysis project. Consider which steps only need to be configured once versus which have to be repeated for every project. If there were steps you found counterintuitive or confusing today, make a note of why you did them or how you figured them out.

1. Make a project in R and populate it with these folders:
data: all input data (and metadata) used in the analysis

paper: manuscript

figs: figures generated by the analysis.

output: any type of intermediate or output files (e.g. simulation outputs, models, processed datasets, etc.). You might separate this and also have a cleaned-data folder.

R: R scripts with function definitions.

reports: Quarto documents that describe the analysis or report on results.

docs: rendered versions of the reports.

scratch: early prototypes and other code I don’t fully understand yet.

Store R scripts that actually do things in the project directory unless there are tons of them, in which case you could totally give them a folder to organize them. You can e.g. number these scripts in their names so you know they need to be run in order.

2. For every new git repo you need to change the settings so that you can activate pages. activate Pages on GitHub. go to your GitHub repo in your browser. Click on Settings and choose Pages under Code and automation. Under Source it should say Deploy from a branch. Under Branch, change None to main and the directory from / (root) to /docs. Click Save.

3. Make text files to explain stuff, save them, and then commit them - then push them to the git repo. 
  